Marathon is a 42.195 km long journey. It is often called a race, which for most people mean a competition. However, unless you are a proffesional runner, it is only a competition against your self. It does not matter if you will be the last one to cross the finish line.

Each 5 km, there is often a refreshment station with thinks like water, sport drinks, salt, suggar, some fruit and some sweets. Then ofthen in between these station there is a hydration station evrey 2.5 km with just water / iont drinks. 
So there are around 8 refresment stations and 8 hydratation stations.  

All this has some implications for training. 
For example, it is not neccesery to run all the time. Drinking from a cup is much more pleasant when you walk, that when you run. It creates a 10s loss, which even if you stop at all the station is under 3 minutes loss, which is not a big deal.
It is important to train thinks drinking, eating, running for a really looong time, resting, keeping a consistent pace and caring for ourselves.
These are thinkks that people normally dont associate with running, but they will happen during the maraton, so it is good to prepare for them.

Another important aspect of the race is the height profile. Most marathons try to limit the elevation gain, and so can we during the training. Running uphill is very different than running on a straight road. Surprisignly, also running downhill could be surprisingly tricky.

The track often consists of 2 half marathon loops. That means you are going to run a half marathon, and then do that exact same think again!
It can also add new company to your race in a form of fresh half maratoners. Some time after the start of the Marathon, another half Marathon race can begin on the same track. There may even be other disciplines like a relay race. 
You will probably meet people on the track that run faster than you. This could be deadly, even dethremental for your race. Under no circumstances should you change your pace for prolonged periods of time. It sounds easy, but when the herd mentaility kicks in, it is different story. 
On the brigh side, you will definitely meet the winner of the race for at least a few seconds. 

It may be prohibited to use earphones during a race, even though it seems bone conducting earphose are tolerated. Music and running is a whole another topic. Importan think to remember here is that you are not running alone. You need to be aware of our surrondings and your surroundings will repay you.
The sounld of hundreds of people running at the same pace, gradually sinking their steps is amazing. Far better than any BPM spotify playlist you can find. 

It may also be prohibited to get outside help in a form of  nutritions or water. Unless you want to go pro, and give organizers your personalize bottles and supplements, it is a much better trategy to became resilient towards various forms of hidrations and refuelling. 
We are not going for insane times and optimal performace. So for medical and finantial reasons it the best to get used to water, salt, bananas and ocational random protein bar. 
